Fon wm‘r'rnn TRANSLATION. 57

small number were unable to leave the fight to rest
themselves. ,

4. At last ”matters came to such a pass, ¹⁰after the
battle had raged for more than six hourS, that Galba
directed his men to try the last resource, make a sortie
from all the gateS, and leave the enemy no chance to
collect their witS. Thus those who had entertained the
hope of crushing Galba's legion were themselves sur-

rounded and killed.

CHAPTERS VIL—XII.

117. 1. Α new war arose in Gaul, 1the cause of which
was that the Veneti, who lived on the seacoast, had
detained two Roman ambassadorS, thinking that through
them they should recover their own hostageS, whom‘
Crassus held. They induced their neighbors to detain
two other ambassadorS‚ and to do nothing ²without the
general consent. ‚

2. ⁸Owing to the nature of their position, and to their
knowledge of naval affaim, they trusted that the RomanS,
1 who neither had any supply of ships nor were acquainted
, with the places where the war ‘would have to be carried
on, would give up the hostages and depart from those
regions.

3. Although¹⁵ Caesar was aware of the difficulties of
waging war in places where towns were situated on ι
extreme points of land and afforded⁶ no access to an army
except in ships, nevertheless, ⁷the wrong done by detain-
ing hostageS, and the conspiring of so many stateS, and
especially ⁸the sear that other states might conspire
against him urged him to this war. Accordingly he dis·
tributed his army among the states which had not yet

