50 GAESAR: (32⁵.me WAR‚ BOOK 111.

CHAPTER VI.

96. 1. You leave us nol opportunity eitherl of learning
what is doing, or1 of ²collecting our wits. 2. Do you
³entertain the hope of slaying all your enemies ? 3. Out
of more than three thousand men 4one third were slain.
4. Galba had come with one⁵ purpose, but saw that he
had met with a different⁵ state of things, 5. After this
battle was fought, there was a great lack of arms and
supplies„

CHAPTER VIII.

97. 1. The influence of the Veneti is very great because
they hold all the sea-coast. 2. All who are accustomed
to use ships are tributaries of the Veneti. 3. Velanius
and¹ Silius were retained. 4. We ²had rather recover our
hostages than remain in slavery to²3 the Romans 5. If
you wish to recover your ambassadorS, send back our
hostages to ηε.

CHAPTER IX.

98. 1. Meanwhile galleys were constructed, rowers
organized‚ and sailors and pilots collected. 2. We know
how great a crime we 1have been guilty of. 3. Consider-
ing the magnitude of the danger, let us build ²as many
ships as possible. 4. Although they ⁸were strongest in
shipS‚ still everything turned out contrary· to expecta·
tion. 5. Navigation is a very different thing in the river
Loire ⁴from what it is on the broad ocean.

CHAPTER X.

99. 1. The difficulties of waging war were very great; ⁰
nevertheless the conspiracy of so many states ¹prompted

 

